Hi All,
So after lot of wait I decided to write about the race that I ran  over this weekend. It was Newport Liberty hlaf marathon on Sept 26 20101. This PIKERMI was a few steps away from my appartment. You might have seen that in my previous blog entry with pictures.

So as per my previous goal I was aiming this to be a sub 1hr 35min race. Yes, I wanted to race this. I was training hard for this and the moment arrived. The race course is flat and no hills at all..no inclination at all. I was confident I shoud be able to make to this goal. So here we go with the race report.

Sunday 8:30 am , NYC and New Jersey weather was awesome sub 70s and coudy what else do you want. We all lined up on the coral. well it was an unmanaged coral there were a total of 3000 people in the race. The course was from Jersey city to Liberty state park (with some endless loops in the park) and then back to jersey city. Course is a bit boring only thing that excites you is you can see both manhattan skyline and liberty statue during the race. otherwise you can count the number of perople cheering for you in the course except for the start and finish line.

So bakc to start ,I was 5 or 6 rows behind the starting line. 8:30 am the race horn screemed...And I  took off. I planned this race to be even effort and even splits. 7:14 min/mile.

Mile 1: I checked my pace , Garmin said 6:20 min/mile..I screamed "$hit" and I literally stopped , I never realised that I was going so fast for the first mile. So I deliberately slowed down.
mile 2: 7:02 min/mil..this is again fast. I need to slow down..we were heading towards liberty state park , the streets were empty and no one was there around only we runners were making long strides along the way.
mile 3: 7:10 much better..but still a need to be a bit slow.
Mile 4-mile 5: 7:15 min/mil , right on the spot. This is what I wanted and I was cruising the same way until mile 7.
Mile 7: oh god I am feeling as if my body is resist to move, why?...I am not sure..I had a GU pack with me..whihc I planned ot take at mile 10. well I took it there at mile 7-8 and my pace slowed down.
mile 7-8: 7:18 min/mil..still okay..I can manage to gradually push in later stage the weather was awesome and there I see complete Manhattan skyline in front of me along with Statue of Liberty.By the way all these miles were as per my garmin, the actual mile markers were way off my garmin.

Mile 9-10: I was started to struggle, I tried to stick around behind a runner in Triatholot suit who was nicely crusing at 7:15  pace. I kept up with him till mile 10. The actual mile markers were getting more and more  off. Garmin's 10 mile marker and actual mile marker was .20 mile away. now what... I didn't paid too much attention to this..now all I wanted to do was finish the last 3 miles at an even effort and dash at last 100 metres.

mile 11-12 passed by , I saw garmin and there was a disaster,..."holy cow" my average pace for mile 11 and 12 dropped to 7:20 and 7:25. My dream to achieve 1 35 was shattering, I took a deep breath and just said to my self "finish it strong buddy..run your heart out"..

I forced my entire body to pace atleast at 7:10 pace and there I was seeing 1:35 clock in front of me at Finish and clock still running ahead of me..last 200 metres.
1 35 30 sec...1 35 40 sec...and 1 35 44 sec..Finish.

I got very close to my goal , chip time of 1hr 35 min and 44 seconds. 
I have so many things to blame but blaming is not going to get me  my goal. I had the best wetaher conditions I could have got, but things just didn;t clicked for me. So better I should CRUSH this goal next time with better training. Below are the pictures that were taken during the event.. I hope one day you may also want to run this flat course...now I am changing gear to continue to train for Philly this Nov.
